the summit of this volcanic mountain
rises above the surface of the sea its
Ascension Island 800 miles from any
other land a welcome vital haven for
long-distance travellers frigate birds
spend months continuously airborne at
sea but at nesting time they come to
ascension from all over the ocean the
islands barren slopes of volcanic ash
and lava might seem to offer perfectly
good sites for a nest but the frigates
choose an even more isolated site bosun
bird island a lonely pillar just off
ascensions coast frigates are the
world's lightest bird relative to their
wingspan and they can soar for weeks on
end with minimal effort
they seem much more at home in the skies
than in a crowded colony on land but
nest they must they come from all over
the Atlantic to this their only colony
the boobies here to to raise their young
seabirds worldwide seek such remote
islands swimmers also come to Ascension
to breed a female green turtle
approaches the coast
she's not even once in two months she
may have traveled 1,000 miles from her
feeding grounds the greatest journey of
her kind
many others are here too resting on the
sandy sea floor awaiting the darkness of
night when it will be safer to visit the
beaches eggs that were laid a few weeks
ago at the start of the season are
beginning to hatch
most hatchings happen at night now in
the light of day the young are extremely
vulnerable
they must get to the sea as soon as
possible
but their trials have only just begun
many will drown in the pounding waves
you